---
title: GSoC :- Week 3
layout: post
description: null
image: null
open_blog: true
suburl: "2024/06/09/week3.html"
---

Hello everyone, welcome to blog post for the third week.

I started this week with working on `int` intrinsic function. I was facing the issue wherein the `int` intrinsic was not showing the elemental property. I tried this function by creating `create_int` and `verify_args` functions manually. Later I was suggested some approaches to fix this issue. Later, another issue that I faced implementing this function was that the function was not able to support Boz constants.

Then I worked on adding the tests for intrinsic functions like `sqrt`, `log` and `abs` of all kind including compile time tests, run-time tests, compile time with arrays and run-time with arrays. Then I worked on adding the signature for bessel functions like `besJ0`, `besJ1`, `besY0`, `besY1`. I was suggested that this functions are not standard intrinsics so we need to add a flag `--std` which would disable the usage of this function.

Then I worked on finding the intrinsic functions that support BoZ. Once We have a support for Boz constants, I would be extending the support to all this functions.

Then I worked on implementation of `eoshift` intrinsic function by adding both compile time and runtime implementations. While implementing this function I found some issues with cshift intrinsic wherein the `shift` argument of `cshift` intrinsic gets altered after the evaluation of the function> I worked on fixing this function. Then I had a meet with Harshita to discuss some work arounds to further complete the remaining functions with all other stuffs like backed support for c/cpp and julia, tests for all functions and removal of old runtime and compile time library.


Following are the list of PRs for this week:

1) #[4142](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4142)
2) #[4159](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4159)
3) #[4186](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4186)
4) #[4195](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4195)
5) #[4201](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4201)


For the next week, I would work on cleaning up of `eoshift` intrinsic function. Then I would be working on implementing the remaining intrinsic functions, followed by addition of tests of all kind for all the intrinsic to ensure the functions works fine for all the cases. On the later part of the week I would be working on adding c/cpp backend and julia backend support for the intrinsic functions.

I would like to thank #[Ondrej Certik](https://github.com/certik) and all the co-mentors for there valuable suggestions.

Thank you for reading, and I look forward to sharing more updates on my progress soon!


