---
title: GSoC :- Week 2
layout: post
description: null
image: null
open_blog: true
suburl: "2024/06/02/week2.html"
---

Hello everyone, welcome to blog post for the second week.

I started this week with completing `lgamma`, `algama` and `dlgama` intrinsic function. A dedicated issue was opened by me where I mentioned the issue regarding failing of some test cases on linux environment for the above three functions. Then I started re-implementing `logical` intrinsic using the elemental approach where in we use to register this function in intrinsic function registry file. We had a brief discussion about how logical should be implemented? Should we create a node like we did for `complex` intrinsic or should it be the same like all the other intrinsic functions. Later it was concluded to go on with the above mentioned approach. I faced issue with not being able to utilize elemental property of this function. I worked on resolving this issue, and yet to find a solution to it.

Then I started completing `int` intrinsic function. Then I removed `int` intrinsic from old runtime library. But I faced certain issues with this particular function. The issues that I encountered were a file named `intrinsics_103.f90` failed due the the utilization of BoZ constants and I was unable to use elemental property of `int` intrinsic. I started working on fixing this function by creation of MRE.

Next, I worked on the runtime implementation of the `dshiftr` intrinsic function. I was stucked at this function for a good amount of time. I found the part of the code where I made an error of type casting. I worked on resolving this. Later this function was completed, I made sure that this function is working as expected by rigorous testing.

Later, I worked on addition of rigorous tests for `intrinsic_01.f90` by addition of all kinds of tests checking. Then there was fortran backend issue with this. Then I was adviced to keep the `fortran` label and submit a new PR with the changes.

Following are the list of PRs for this week:

1) #[4066](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4066)
2) #[4087](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4087)
3) #[4092](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4092)
4) #[4046](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4046)
5) #[4110](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4110)
6) #[4110](https://github.com/lfortran/lfortran/pull/4087)

For the next week, I would work on completion of the `int` intrinsic function. Then I would work on addition elemntal support for the merged `logical` intrinsic function. Then I would work on addition of other intrinsic functions, followed by addition of tests of all kind for all the intrinsic to ensure the functions works fine for all the cases.

I would like to thank #[Ondrej Certik](https://github.com/certik) and all the co-mentors for there valuable suggestions.

Thank you for reading, and I look forward to sharing more updates on my progress soon!


